the following tutorial is a sample video
from a full course to watch the entire
course and many others please visit
digital tutors common to find hundreds
of other free videos or sign up for a
subscription and experience our entire
library in this lesson we'll understand
what rigging is and why it's needed in
production
the scene is rigging basics 0 to begin
in your project files so what is rigging
well it all boils down to building
controls to manipulate objects and
models in our scene now why would we
need rigging well a lot of times after a
modeler has built a character it's what
we see before us we then went to have
that care to move around we want to put
a skeleton inside that character and
then creates controls to drive that
skeleton which will in turn move our
character so without rigging we wouldn't
be able to do that now there are several
types of levels of complexity when it
comes to rigging we have the more
advanced type of rigging and that type
of rigging is what we'd use for
character animation so if we were to hit
play in our scene I'll just go to the
play controls and hit the play button
you'll see we have our character moving
around in a way where we get an idea
that this character is now living has
some type of personality now rigging can
also be as basic as what we see here
with the cube that's being squashed yes
that has been rigged as well so we can
have squash and stretch deformations
alright so now that we understand what
rigging is and why rigging it's so
essential in production I'm going to go
ahead and stop the lesson here in the
next lesson we'll take a look at the
most basic form of rigging which is
called parenting